And another question comes from user
Kh Nhung. She asks: "Every time I
do something, I always
feel insecure and unconfident.
What should I do to
overcome this insecurity and become
more confident?" The answer is: "
Whenever you do something that makes
you feel insecure, it's because you have
n't made a firm decision or thought it through.
For example,
you just do it without
understanding where it will lead or what the
result will be, so you feel insecure.
Another thing is that you do it unintentionally, and because
you do it unintentionally, the
result isn't good, causing you to feel
insecure. The
quickest way to eliminate this is to
think carefully before you act. For example, consider
what benefit this action will bring to others and how it will
affect you. The
quickest way to do this is to contemplate cause and effect. The
Buddha taught this: 'When you hear about
anything, then...'"  You must think
critically and see that what you are doing is good, that it will
benefit you and
others. Then you should do it, and it
will bring you
good karma. That will encompass
everything. So I also hope that
you practice thinking more
about your actions. I remember a
story I heard when I was studying
Buddhism. There was a
man sitting in the middle of the road
with an iron box.
Inside the box was an
object. A king
passed by, and the man chased him away. He would
n't let the
soldiers take care of him, but the man
said no. He said he would
only sell the precious object to the king, and the
price was a thousand gold coins.
He wouldn't sell it for free.
The king found it strange, so he
bought it, but the
man instructed him to only open it when there was the most urgent and difficult problem to solve.
Before long, the country faced a
rebellion. At that time, many
high-ranking officials were instigating various actions. The
king had one
high-ranking official who had always been very good to
him. However, all the other officials were now
voting to kill this loyal official. The
king
saw how loyal this official had been
to him for so long, yet this
official offered one
piece of advice, while all the
other officials offered other advice. One
official even said that
this old official would be an obstacle to the
king, and thus decided to
kill him. The king was very conflicted; he
didn't know what to decide. Then,
he opened a box. Inside,
he found a message: "Whatever you do,
think about the consequences."
When the king read it,
he began to think that
this close advisor had always been the
most loyal to him, and the others
were not.  A loyal person is like that.
If I kill the most loyal person now,
no one below me will
believe me anymore. And
this most loyal person has been
with me through so many ups and downs. They
must be the one who
can tell me the best things
and is most concerned about me. Because he
considered the consequences, he didn't
execute this high-ranking official. And it was
this official who helped him
pacify the country. So, if
you want to avoid regretting your actions, you should
think about the consequences before doing anything.
That way of thinking
is based on cause and effect.
If you see something as good, if it will be
praised by many, if it will benefit
others, then you should do it. Then
your actions will not cause
you any regret or anxiety. You should study
Buddhism more and think about cause and effect. Then
you will be able to think about all
your actions before and after, if
something has happened.  Once it's happened, you should
think about it again to learn from the experience, and for
things that haven't happened yet, you should think about them
beforehand. Yes, thank you for
your answer, teacher.
[music]
K